Summative Project Reflection

This project was interesting to do and I gained a much better understanding of FileIO and creating lists of arrays, as well as moving between the different classes. 
This is also something I will be using in the future, and I might even add more features to it as time goes on, like music, more graphics and similar saving features. 
During the process I also learned how to create GUI elements with less repetitive code and how to get, use and compare dates in real life. I find this to be very helpful, and it definitely increased my interest in coding. 

There was many challenges while doing the code, including a lot of steps of debugging and error checking and trying to access things between the classes, but I gained experience from the previous group project, to start foundational, so to begin with I didn’t include as many variables and only started with creating, accessing and handling three objects and storing and getting the saved information from these objects. 
Because my project revolved around dates, it was very difficult to begin with and I needed to watch new tutorials and learn things from scratch, so it was hard to bring all of the new information together. 
For instance when I’m getting info saved from a file, the first step would be to print it in the console every time the project has started running, and when I can successfully do that, I’m supposing that the file reading worked, so I’m starting to incorporate other things into the program, but when I e.g. put the output on a label, it becomes null! 
And I changed this already, so it’s hard to find back to the way I came from, and so I think it’s harder than you think to be debugging while coding at the same time. 

And when I started handling the dates I encountered many errors in the console and conversion problems, because I’ve never used dates before, so before I knew that I could parse a string into a date and date back into a string, I struggled a lot with the code and it even made my logic messy, and I don’t know where to begin with, and I thought of a lot of ways of handling the user input and getting the date user is on, I even started thinking of creating a calendar, but I’ve only seen tutorials with the calendars in java FX, so I think I wouldn’t be able to reach that level of complexity in such short amount of time. And I had some difficulties in my code because sometimes something would overlay the saved info everytime the project is opened, so I ended up not creating objects every time but creating them only 1 time and only reading and editing from that point on. 
I cannot count how many times my labels would display null and sometimes your code would be right and running, but as soon as you change something, it immediately crashes. 


I have to improve on: 
Consolidating the ideas more before starting to code
Getting more sleep
Try to plan out the video editing before doing it
Keeping up with the plan
Saving & reading files

I will continue to be doing: 
Debugging as I code
Divide the code into different parts
Keeping at least 4 copies of the whole project, going back and forth, forth for trying out new things with confidence and back in case anything goes wrong
Keep updating between the copies
Try to code a little bit every day
Write down possible improvements and errors
Step by step debugging 
Starting from the most foundational code
